>> Kyle Simpson: With our basic
understanding of scope under our belt,
we can now look at closure because
closure without understanding scope
is actually not understanding closure.
You really can't get closure
unless you understand
the scope that goes underneath it.
So now that we have a general sense
of how this idea of scope works,
how lexical scope works, we can start to
look at how closure works in our programs.
And I wanna give you just a very
simple definition for closure.
Closure is when a function remembers
the variables outside of it,
even if you pass that function elsewhere.
And there's two parts to this definition
that are key for you to pick up.
Number one,
that it is remembering that a function
is remembering variables outside of it.
We mean variables that were
declared in some outer scope.
So of course a variable is going
to remember its own variables,
ones that was declared inside of it.
But we can also have a function that
accesses variables that were created
outside of it, and that's an important
key that we often need to do.
And we'll see some examples
in a moment of that.
But that's only part of the definition
because the second part is that it's only
closure, we can only observe that as
a closure if we take that function and
we pass it somewhere.
We pass it as a callback argument or
we return it, we assign it to some
property and pass that object around.
Whenever we treat a function as if it's
a value, remember I said a bit earlier,
that's one of the key principles here in
JavaScript is that functions are first
class values.
We can pass them around,
that's what makes them expressions.
Well if we have a function that is of
a value that we can pass around somewhere,
then we have a chance of
observing this idea of closure.
It's probably best for
me to just explain it with code, so
let's look at a code example.
Undoubtedly you've probably used a set
timeout at some point or another or
at least seen someone use
a set timeout before.
And the set timeout is creating
a function expressed, it's referencing
a function expression that has a variable
in it, line three the question variable,
and that question variable
is not inside of waitASec.
It's not a variable that's declared there.
Where is it created?
Its created in the outer
scope of the function ask.
It's specifically that
parameter called question.
Now when we run ask on line seven and
we pass in a string, and
then we call this setTimeout,
immediately after we finish calling
the setTimeout before it's actually run,
just as soon as we've set up this
setTimeout, the ask function has finished.
It's not gonna run anymore,
it's completely done.
And we would normally think that all of
the variables inside of a function go away
when a function finishes.
So we would normally think that
question would just get deleted,
it would just get what's
called garbage collected.
But the reason it doesn't is because
that timer is still waiting for
100 milliseconds with a function
called waitASec in its memory.
And that waitASec function
is referencing question, and
as a result of that it keeps the question
variable, it keeps that scope alive.
And that magic, the way that works,
that's called closure.
It is said that waitASec as a function
has closure over the question variable.
So that allows us to remember some
variable, remember the value that's in
that variable, even when our function
is gonna get executed in an entirely
different place, and sometimes in
an entirely different timeline.
Here's another example.
Not passing a function as an argument
callback like we did in the previous
slide, but
here we're gonna return back a function.
So I call the ask function passing
in what is closure as a string, and
what I get back, line seven I
assigned to the variable my question.
I'm assigning that function
expression as a value.
I'm assigning it to this variable
called my question on line seven.
Somewhere later in the program,
if I execute that function,
it's still knows what the contents
of the question variable.
And the reason it knows the contents
of the question variable
is because of closure.
It had closure over that variable,
it preserved access to that variable, and
it was able to use that at a later time or
in a different place of the program.
Closure is a tremendously important
concept in all of programming.
And this quick brief little look at it is
no where near enough to fully get your
brain wrapped around it.
But I want to encourage you of
all the things I've talked about,
if you don't find anything else
that interests you to dig into and
really learn more about, closure is
gonna be one of the most important and
one of the most prevalent
concepts that you're gonna
encounter throughout all the rest
of your programming career.
It's a feature that
figures heavily in almost
every programming language that
you will future encounter.
And so JavaScript being one of the first
early movers to have this feature,
we've got a really rich language ecosystem
that we can play with this and use it for
all these different patterns,
use it to remember values over time.
It's incredibly powerful, and it's kind
of amazing how you find new usages of
a tool that you've known for a long time.
Even I will find a new usage some day,
and I'm like, wow,
I never even thought to
use closure that way.
It's such a prevalent and
important concept that I don't
want you to skip over it.
Even if in your brain you're still
not quite sure what this is, this is
one of those areas that you definitely
wanna dig into and learn more about.